The final piece of the Web development puzzle is how to present or format the informa-
tion requested and/or returned via HTTP and queried from the SQL database.Typically,
this is done in HTML (HyperText Markup Language) or its newer, more XML-like
cousin XHTML, along with the sister languages of JavaScript for dynamic browser-side
functionality and CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) for visual styling. 

Newer applications also use JSON (a “light” data format) or XML to enable dynamic content.
To work with data being presented, most Web frameworks provide a template language, which blends 
raw HTML tags with a programming-like syntax for looping over collections of objects, 
performing logic operations, and other constructs that enable the dynamic behavior desired.
A simple example could be an otherwise static HTML document with a piece of logic that says 
to display the username of the currently logged-in user or to display a “Login” link 
if the user is not yet logged in.

Some templating systems attempt to be fully XHTML compliant, implementing their
programming-like commands as HTML attributes or tags, so the resultant document can
be parsed as normal HTML. Others emulate regular programming languages more
closely, sometimes with an “alternative tag” syntax where the programming constructs are
surrounded with special characters for ease of reading and parsing. Django’s template lan-
guage is one of the latter.

Putting It All Together
While organizing the Web into the three components outlined previously, one important
aspect has been omitted: how they interact with one another. How does a Web applica-
tion know to execute a SQL query based on a request, and how does it know what tem-
plate to use when rendering the result?
The answer depends partly on the tools used: Each Web framework or language can
approach things in a different way. However, there are generally more similarities than
there are differences, and although the next two sections outline Django’s own approach,
many of these concepts can be found in other frameworks as well.

